# TableauChatbot
Using OpenAI API to allow natural language interaction with Tableau dashboards.

Creating an integration between Tableau and LLMs could be difficult because there is no simple way to share the data from the Tableau dashboard to the LLM. Also, if your data is sensitive, you might not want to or simply can't provide a third party with it. To solve this, we provide a high level description of the dashboard to the LLM and that allows the model to accurately find the correct answer provided that the descriptions are detailed enough. By manipulating the urls it is also possible to even filter the dashboards based on users' queries.

This code was created in Databricks but it can also be run as a standalone python script. Just remove the magic commands and the dbutils.library.restartPython() command.

# Usage
Create an account with OpenAI, create a token and add it to the config file.

Replace the pre-existing prompt that describes the Superstore tabs with your dashboards' descriptions.

Descriptions can be generated by providing GPT-4o with a screenshot of your dashboard, for example. You can tweak the descriptions and add more details. Better descriptions result in better quality responses.

The descriptions can be added to the "About" metadata field in Tableau. This would allow for a script to automatically update the config file using Tableau API.

The result is a Gradio app running on local host. If the option shared=True is used on the launch command, a public link will also be created and hosted by hugging face.

# Limitations

This script was designed as a proof of concept and does not prevent the user from bypassing the initial instructions and using the model for other purposes.

If there are too many dashboards available, the descriptions might exceed the context window of the model. In this case, and index search could be used to narrow down the dashboards and generate more concise dashboard description on the fly, instead of reading from a config file.